A face detection includes classifying image into two classes: one with faces (targets), and other containing the background (clutter) which needs to be removed. Commonalities exist between faces, they vary differently in terms of age, skin color and facial expression, this becomes difficult due to this commonality. The further problem is complicated by differing lighting conditions, image qualities and geometries, partial occlusion and disguise is also a possibility.A face detector should be able to detect the presence of any face under different set of lighting conditions in any background condition. The face detection analysis can be broken into two tasks. The first task is a classification task that takes some random regions of image as input and outputs a binary value of yes or no, indicating if there are any faces present in the image. The other task is the face localization task which is to take an image as input and output the location of any face or faces within that image as some bounding box/boxes with (x, y, width, height). 
A person’s internal states, social communication and intentions are indicated by change in facial expressions. Many applications in many areas like human emotions analysis, natural Human computer interaction, image retrieval and talking bots have a w Recognition with Histogram of Oriented Gradients using CNN detection has been an impacting issue in the technological community as human beings fined facial expressions one of the most natural and powerful means to express their intentions and emotions. 
Last stage of the system is facial expression detection. There are basically three steps in training procedure in expression recognition systems named as feature learning, classifier construction and feature selection. Feature learning stage is first, feature selection is second and the last one is classifier construction. Only learned facial expressions variations among all features are extracted after feature learning stage. Now-a-days with the continued development of artificial intelligence facial emotion recognition has become more popular. The emotion recognition plays a major role in interaction technology. In interaction technology the verbal components only play a one third of communication and the non-verbal components plays a two third of communication. A facial emotion recognition (FER) method is used for detecting facial expressions. Facial expression plays a major role in expressing what a person feels and it expresses inner feeling and his or her mental situation. This project aims to identify basic human emotions through web cam, image and video. The facial emotions such as happy, sad, angry, fear, surprised, neutral emotions are considered as basic emotions. Six respondents' coefficients defining various aspects of face expressions were chosen as the characteristics.  The features have been calculated for three-dimensional face model. The classification of features was performed using OpenCV, harassed _frontal face _default.
